There are two different types of COVID-19 testing,
diagnostic and antibody testing.
Antibody testing uses a blood sample.
The test determines if a person was infected
with the virus in the past.
It is not able to differentiate
between current and prior infections.
Diagnostic testing uses a nasal or oral swab
to determine if someone is currently infected with SARS-CoV-2.
Diagnostic testing falls two categories,
antigen tests and molecular tests.
There are pros and cons to each type of COVID-19 test.
Antigen testing looks for proteins
on the outside of the virus.
Antigen tests are relatively fast and inexpensive.
However, they are less accurate
and not sensitive enough for use by asymptomatic carriers.
That means a negative result from an antigen test
may not mean that a patient is free of infection.
A PCR test is a molecular test
that looks for the genetic material of the virus.
In PCR testing,
viral RNA is converted to DNA and amplified,
using a thermal process, until they can be detected.
Because a PCR test can run
multiple cycles of this amplification,
it can detect the virus even if there is a
low level of the viral RNA in the sample.
PCR is extremely accurate
but is relatively slow and costly.